OCD competency Questions(CQs)
CQ1. What causes OCD?
CQ2. What is the difference between obsessions and compulsions?
CQ3. Is OCD a brain disease?
CQ4. Do persons with OCD experience changes in sleeping or eating habits?
CQ5. Do individuals with OCD frequently experience intrusive thoughts disrupting social activities?
CQ6. Do you ever experience unwanted, repetitive, and persistent thoughts that cause you anxiety?
CQ7. Do you experience intrusive thoughts that are aggressive (i.e., harm to yourself or others) or about taboo topics such as porn?
CQ8. Do you spend at least one hour a day thinking obsessive thoughts or performing ritualistic behavior in an attempt to avoid angst? If so, how often?
CQ9. Do people with OCD believe their irrational thoughts?
CQ10. Do individuals with OCD excessively worry about dirt, germs, or chemicals?
CQ11. Is there a concern with symmetry and order in OCD individuals?
CQ12. Do you ever fear contamination (i.e., germs) from people or the environment and engage in excessive cleaning? If so, how often?
CQ13. Do you have unwanted thoughts of a sexual nature that you find inappropriate?
CQ14. Do individuals with OCD encounter distressing, unwanted mental images?
CQ15. Do individuals with OCD struggle with uncontrollable urges consuming significant time?
CQ16. How challenging is it to resist OCD thoughts?
CQ17. Do Intrusive thoughts or repetitive behavior significantly interfere with normal routine, occupational, or academic functioning?
CQ18. Do you spend at least one hour a day thinking about obsessive thoughts or performing ritualistic behavior in an attempt to avoid angst? If so, how often?
CQ19. What differentiates normal from compulsive checking in OCD?
CQ20. Do you experience the need to constantly check on something (i.e., repeatedly checking to be sure doors are locked, light switches, and/or appliances are off) or arrange the order of things (a shelf in a bedroom or a kitchen cabinet, for example)?
CQ21. What thought patterns are common in OCD individuals exhibiting reassurance behavior?
CQ22. How does OCD impact life quality?
CQ23. What psychological disorders often co-occur with OCD?
CQ24. Do thoughts, impulses, or images come from your own mind?

References for OCD competency Questions(CQs)

https://medicine.yale.edu/psychiatry/ocd/aboutocd/faqs/, accessed in May 2020
Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI)
DSM-IV Axis I Disorders (SCID-I)
David Veale and Alison Roberts. “Obsessive-compulsive disorder”. In: Bmj 348
(2014), g2183.
